reagan-thesis.chapter4-results.tex:15 the
53:There are many possible experiments given the choice of assimilation window, data assimilation algorithm, localization scheme, model resolution, observational density, observed variables, and observation quality.
109:With too few observations, the data assimilation is unable to recover the underlying dynamics.
137:With success at predicting flow direction given full temperature observations, we now ask the question: just how many observations are necessary?
140:Our results indicate that (initially, not plotted) the averaging of temperature over many cells for the synthetic temperature sensors up to 32 sensors significantly degraded prediction skill.
11:By utilizing an object-oriented (OO) design, the model and data assimilation algorithm code are separate and can be changed independently.
14:To add a new model to this framework, it is only necessary to write a MATLAB class wrapper for the model, and the existing Lorenz 63 and OpenFOAM model wrappers can be used as templates.
15:Testing a new technique for performing the DA step is as simple as writing a MATLAB function for the assimilation steps, where the the model result and observations are provided as an input.
18:A description of the main algorithm is provided in Appendix \ref{app:foamlab}.
20:For large models, it is necessary to perform the assimilation in a local space, and this consideration is accounted for within the framework.
35:A non-uniform sampling of the OpenFOAM model parameter space across BC type, BC values, and turbulence model was performed.
76:The need for covariance localization was discussed in Chapter 2, and here we implement three different schemes.
81:Data assimilation is performed for each grid point, considering neighboring cells and observations with cell center within a radius $r$ from each point (e.g. $r = 0.5$cm).
85:Synthetic data is generated from one model run, pertaining a modified ``buoyantBoussinesqPimpleFoam'' solution with fixed value boundary conditions of 290K top and 340K bottom, 80,000 grid points, a time step of .01, and laminar turbulence model.
86:Data is saved for every half second, and is subsampled for 2,4,8,16 and 32 synthetic temperature sensors spaced evenly around the loop.
87:The temperature at these synthetic sensors is reported as the average for cells with centers within 0.5cm of the observation center.
88:Going beyond 32 temperature observations, which we find to be necessary, samples are performed by observed cell-center temperature values.
89:The position of the chosen cell depends on the number of observations being made, and within that number there are options that are tested.
90:For less than 1000 observations, (1000 being the number of angular slices) observations are placed at cell centers, spaced maximally apart.
91:For 1000 observations both slice center (midpoint going all the way around) and staggered (closer to one wall, alternating) are considered.
94:In addition to temperature sensing, the velocity in $y$ and $z$ is sampled at 50, 100, and 300 points chosen randomly at each time step.
95:These velocity observations, when included are designed to simulate an reconstructed velocity measurement based on video particle tracking.
97:To obtain realistic sampling intervals, this data was aggregated and is then subsampled at the assimilation window length.
99:Errors for both the EM model and OpenFOAM are presented as RMSE from the observed $T_{3-9}$, such that the models can be compared.
100:In the EM model, a maximum of 2 temperature sensors are considered for observations at $T_3$ and $T_9$, and no mean velocity reconstruction from subsampled velocity is attempted.
103:This is accomplished for these results by dividing through by the mean climatological values from the observations and model results before assimilation. 
155:%% Flow structures are identified by considering the leading vectors in $U$ of the singular value decomposition (SVD) of flow within a reasonably sized domain (e.g. within slice localization regions for large $r$).
161:We have found that data assimilation algorithms and CFD solvers are sensitive to parameter choices, and cannot be used successfully without an approach that is specific to the problem at hand.
162:Such an approach has been developed, and proved to be successful.
187:In Figure \ref{fig:covlocaladaptive}, the potential gain from adaptive covariance localization can be seen.
